_sources/paper/paper.md, before:

---
title: Spiking neural network models of sound localisation via a massively collaborative process
authors:
 - name: Francesco De Santis
    affiliations:
      - NearLab, Politecnico di Milano
 - name: Alberto Antonietti
    affiliations:
      - NearLab, Politecnico di Milano
  - name: Gabriel Béna
    affiliations:
      - Imperial College London
  - name: Dan F. M. Goodman
    affiliations:
      - Imperial College London
    orcid: 0000-0003-1007-6474
  - name: Marcus Ghosh
    affiliations:
      - Laboratoire Jean Perrin, Sorbonne Université, Paris
    orcid: 0000-0002-2428-4605
    email: mghosh@imperial.ac.uk
license: CC-BY-4.0
export:
  - format: docx
  - format: tex
    template: lapreprint
---

% Add your name, affiliations, etc. at the top of the authors list (in the end we will randomise the order)


+++ {"part": "abstract"}
* We started a project to run a massively collaborative online modelling project.
* We built a successful infrastructure to manage this.
* We provided great training opportunities.
* The project functioned as a successful incubator of ideas.
* We made some progress in modelling sound localisation with spiking neural networks.
* Future iterations would benefit from clearer paths to participation and more structure / more clearly defined goals. 
+++

## Introduction

```{include} sections/intro.md
```

## Towards open collaborative science 

```{include} sections/meta_science.md
```

## Training SNNs for sound localisation
% This will have the basics of the cosyne tutorial.

### Learning delays

```{include} sections/habashy.md
```

### Time constants

### Dale's law

### Alternative neuron models

## Discussion

```{include} sections/discussion.md
```

## References

Commit message:

deploy c911bd85e58fbda2845f246e45802c25d372bf87 (New pytorch filter-and-fire implementation and experiments (#86)
* Added my humble contribution, a pytorch model of the filter and fire neuron model, which I intend to experiment with in the future

* updated alt-fnf notebook to implement Exp3 of the original fnf notebook

* updated alt-fnf notebook to support original spike calculation

* updated alt-fnf notebook with initial experiment of contacts (M=3) vs no contacts (M=1)

---------

Co-authored-by: Ido Aizenbud <ido.aizenbud@octopus.elsc.huji.ac.il>) c911bd85e58fbda2845f246e45802c25d372bf87

_sources/paper/paper.md, after:

---
title: Spiking neural network models of sound localisation via a massively collaborative process
authors:
 - name: Ido Aizenbud
    affiliations:
      - The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
 - name: Francesco De Santis
    affiliations:
      - NearLab, Politecnico di Milano
 - name: Alberto Antonietti
    affiliations:
      - NearLab, Politecnico di Milano
  - name: Gabriel Béna
    affiliations:
      - Imperial College London
  - name: Dan F. M. Goodman
    affiliations:
      - Imperial College London
    orcid: 0000-0003-1007-6474
  - name: Marcus Ghosh
    affiliations:
      - Laboratoire Jean Perrin, Sorbonne Université, Paris
    orcid: 0000-0002-2428-4605
    email: mghosh@imperial.ac.uk
license: CC-BY-4.0
export:
  - format: docx
  - format: tex
    template: lapreprint
---

% Add your name, affiliations, etc. at the top of the authors list (in the end we will randomise the order)


+++ {"part": "abstract"}
* We started a project to run a massively collaborative online modelling project.
* We built a successful infrastructure to manage this.
* We provided great training opportunities.
* The project functioned as a successful incubator of ideas.
* We made some progress in modelling sound localisation with spiking neural networks.
* Future iterations would benefit from clearer paths to participation and more structure / more clearly defined goals. 
+++

## Introduction

```{include} sections/intro.md
```

## Towards open collaborative science 

```{include} sections/meta_science.md
```

## Training SNNs for sound localisation
% This will have the basics of the cosyne tutorial.

### Learning delays

```{include} sections/habashy.md
```

### Time constants

### Dale's law

### Alternative neuron models

## Discussion

```{include} sections/discussion.md
```

## References
