paper/sections/contributor_table.md, before:

```{attention}
Hello contributors! I have inserted a table of names, websites and GitHub usernames of contributors from the repository below. There is a lot of information missing. Please can you submit pull requests modifying the file [paper/sections/contributor_table.md](https://github.com/comob-project/snn-sound-localization/blob/main/paper/sections/contributor_table.md) to update your information, and also get in touch with us if you would like to be listed as an author. Either email [Dan Goodman](mailto:d.goodman@imperial.ac.uk) or join the [SNUFA discord channel](https://discord.gg/aYvgGakrVK) ``#sound-localisation-paper``.
```

If you add a contribution, please use one of the following templates (see examples below):

* Wrote the paper (plus which section if you would like to specify)
* Conducted research (please give a link to your notebook formatted like this ``[](../research/3-Starting-Notebook.ipynb)``, or specify another sort of contribution)
* Supervised research (please give the name of your supervisee)

```{list-table} Contributors, ordered by GitHub commits.
:header-rows: 1
:label: contributors-table

* - Name
  - GitHub
  - Contribution
* - [Tomas Fiers](https://tomasfiers.net/)
  - [\@tfiers](https://github.com/tfiers)
  - Built the website infrastructure.
* - [Marcus Ghosh](https://neural-reckoning.org/marcus_ghosh.html)
  - [\@ghoshm](https://github.com/ghoshm)
  - Managed the project, wrote the paper, conducted research ([](../research/4-Quick_Start.ipynb), [](../research/Dales_law.ipynb)), gave the Cosyne tutorial.
* - [Dan Goodman](http://neural-reckoning.org/)
  - [\@thesamovar](https://github.com/thesamovar)
  - Conceived the project, wrote the paper, wrote and recorded the Cosyne tutorial. Conducted research ([](../research/3-Starting-Notebook.ipynb)).
* - Francesco De Santis
  - [\@francescodesantis](https://github.com/francescodesantis)
  - (TODO)
* - Karim Habashy
  - [\@KarimHabashy](https://github.com/KarimHabashy)
  - (TODO)
* - Mingxuan Hong
  - [\@mxhong](https://github.com/mxhong)
  - (TODO)
* - [Dilay Fidan Erçelik](https://dilayercelik.github.io/)
  - [\@dilayercelik](https://github.com/dilayercelik)
  - (TODO)
* - [Rory Byrne](https://rory.bio/)
  - [\@rorybyrne](https://github.com/rorybyrne)
  - (TODO)
* - [Zach Friedenberger](https://zachfriedenberger.github.io/)
  - [\@ZachFriedenberger](https://github.com/ZachFriedenberger)
  - Conducted research ([](../research/Optimizing-Membrane-Time-Constant.ipynb)).
* - [Helena Yuhan Liu](https://amath.washington.edu/people/helena-liu)
  - [\@Helena-Yuhan-Liu](https://github.com/Helena-Yuhan-Liu)
  - (TODO)
* - Jose Gomes?
  - [\@JoseGomesJPG](https://github.com/JoseGomesJPG)
  - (TODO)
* - ???
  - [\@a-dtk](https://github.com/a-dtk)
  - (TODO)
* - Sara Evers?
  - [\@saraevers](https://github.com/saraevers)
  - (TODO)
* - Ido Aizenbud
  - [\@ido4848](https://github.com/ido4848)
  - (TODO)
* - Balázs Mészáros
  - [\@mbalazs98](https://github.com/mbalazs98)
  - Wrote the paper (DCLS based delay learning in the appendix). Conducted research ([](../research/Quick_Start_random.ipynb), [](../research/Quick_Start_Delay_DCLS.ipynb))
* - Sebastian Schmitt
  - [\@schmitts](https://github.com/schmitts)
  - (TODO)
* - [Rowan Cockett](http://row1.ca/)
  - [\@rowanc1](https://github.com/rowanc1)
  - MyST technical support
* - [Jakub Smékal](https://jakubsmekal.com/)
  - [\@smejak](https://github.com/smejak)
  - (TODO)
* - [Alberto Antonietti](https://www.deib.polimi.it/eng/people/details/669646)
  - [\@alberto-antonietti](https://github.com/alberto-antonietti)
  - (TODO)
* - Lavínia Takarabe
  - [\@laviniamitiko](https://github.com/laviniamitiko)
  - (TODO)
* - Danish Shaikh
  - [\@danishbizkit](https://github.com/danishbizkit)
  - (TODO)
* - ???
  - [\@pfcgit](https://github.com/pfcgit)
  - (TODO)
* - ???
  - [\@luis-rr](https://github.com/luis-rr)
  - (TODO)
* - Pietro Monticone
  - [\@pitmonticone](https://github.com/pitmonticone)
  - Cleaned paper and notebooks
* - [Adam Haber](http://adamhaber.github.io/)
  - [\@adamhaber](https://github.com/adamhaber)
  - (TODO)
* - [Gabriel Béna](https://neural-reckoning.org/gabriel_bena.html)
  - [\@GabrielBena](https://github.com/GabrielBena)
  - (TODO)
* - Divyansh Gupta
  - [\@guptadivyansh](https://github.com/guptadivyansh)
  - (TODO)
```

Commit message:

Update contributor_table.md for Francesco and Alberto

paper/sections/contributor_table.md, after:

```{attention}
Hello contributors! I have inserted a table of names, websites and GitHub usernames of contributors from the repository below. There is a lot of information missing. Please can you submit pull requests modifying the file [paper/sections/contributor_table.md](https://github.com/comob-project/snn-sound-localization/blob/main/paper/sections/contributor_table.md) to update your information, and also get in touch with us if you would like to be listed as an author. Either email [Dan Goodman](mailto:d.goodman@imperial.ac.uk) or join the [SNUFA discord channel](https://discord.gg/aYvgGakrVK) ``#sound-localisation-paper``.
```

If you add a contribution, please use one of the following templates (see examples below):

* Wrote the paper (plus which section if you would like to specify)
* Conducted research (please give a link to your notebook formatted like this ``[](../research/3-Starting-Notebook.ipynb)``, or specify another sort of contribution)
* Supervised research (please give the name of your supervisee)

```{list-table} Contributors, ordered by GitHub commits.
:header-rows: 1
:label: contributors-table

* - Name
  - GitHub
  - Contribution
* - [Tomas Fiers](https://tomasfiers.net/)
  - [\@tfiers](https://github.com/tfiers)
  - Built the website infrastructure.
* - [Marcus Ghosh](https://neural-reckoning.org/marcus_ghosh.html)
  - [\@ghoshm](https://github.com/ghoshm)
  - Managed the project, wrote the paper, conducted research ([](../research/4-Quick_Start.ipynb), [](../research/Dales_law.ipynb)), gave the Cosyne tutorial.
* - [Dan Goodman](http://neural-reckoning.org/)
  - [\@thesamovar](https://github.com/thesamovar)
  - Conceived the project, wrote the paper, wrote and recorded the Cosyne tutorial. Conducted research ([](../research/3-Starting-Notebook.ipynb)).
* - Francesco De Santis
  - [\@francescodesantis](https://github.com/francescodesantis)
  - (Wrote the paper ([](sections/new_inh_model.md)) and conducted research ([](../research/TODO)).)
* - Karim Habashy
  - [\@KarimHabashy](https://github.com/KarimHabashy)
  - (TODO)
* - Mingxuan Hong
  - [\@mxhong](https://github.com/mxhong)
  - (TODO)
* - [Dilay Fidan Erçelik](https://dilayercelik.github.io/)
  - [\@dilayercelik](https://github.com/dilayercelik)
  - (TODO)
* - [Rory Byrne](https://rory.bio/)
  - [\@rorybyrne](https://github.com/rorybyrne)
  - (TODO)
* - [Zach Friedenberger](https://zachfriedenberger.github.io/)
  - [\@ZachFriedenberger](https://github.com/ZachFriedenberger)
  - Conducted research ([](../research/Optimizing-Membrane-Time-Constant.ipynb)).
* - [Helena Yuhan Liu](https://amath.washington.edu/people/helena-liu)
  - [\@Helena-Yuhan-Liu](https://github.com/Helena-Yuhan-Liu)
  - (TODO)
* - Jose Gomes?
  - [\@JoseGomesJPG](https://github.com/JoseGomesJPG)
  - (TODO)
* - ???
  - [\@a-dtk](https://github.com/a-dtk)
  - (TODO)
* - Sara Evers?
  - [\@saraevers](https://github.com/saraevers)
  - (TODO)
* - Ido Aizenbud
  - [\@ido4848](https://github.com/ido4848)
  - (TODO)
* - Balázs Mészáros
  - [\@mbalazs98](https://github.com/mbalazs98)
  - Wrote the paper (DCLS based delay learning in the appendix). Conducted research ([](../research/Quick_Start_random.ipynb), [](../research/Quick_Start_Delay_DCLS.ipynb))
* - Sebastian Schmitt
  - [\@schmitts](https://github.com/schmitts)
  - (TODO)
* - [Rowan Cockett](http://row1.ca/)
  - [\@rowanc1](https://github.com/rowanc1)
  - MyST technical support
* - [Jakub Smékal](https://jakubsmekal.com/)
  - [\@smejak](https://github.com/smejak)
  - (TODO)
* - [Alberto Antonietti](https://www.deib.polimi.it/eng/people/details/669646)
  - [\@alberto-antonietti](https://github.com/alberto-antonietti)
  - (Supervised research (Francesco De Santis) and revised the paper ([](sections/new_inh_model.md)))
* - Lavínia Takarabe
  - [\@laviniamitiko](https://github.com/laviniamitiko)
  - (TODO)
* - Danish Shaikh
  - [\@danishbizkit](https://github.com/danishbizkit)
  - (TODO)
* - ???
  - [\@pfcgit](https://github.com/pfcgit)
  - (TODO)
* - ???
  - [\@luis-rr](https://github.com/luis-rr)
  - (TODO)
* - Pietro Monticone
  - [\@pitmonticone](https://github.com/pitmonticone)
  - Cleaned paper and notebooks
* - [Adam Haber](http://adamhaber.github.io/)
  - [\@adamhaber](https://github.com/adamhaber)
  - (TODO)
* - [Gabriel Béna](https://neural-reckoning.org/gabriel_bena.html)
  - [\@GabrielBena](https://github.com/GabrielBena)
  - (TODO)
* - Divyansh Gupta
  - [\@guptadivyansh](https://github.com/guptadivyansh)
  - (TODO)
```
