## What went well

The decision to start from the code base of the [Cosyne tutorial](https://neural-reckoning.github.io/cosyne-tutorial-2022/) {cite:p}`10.5281/zenodo.7044500` was very helpful. It meant that users had a clear entry path for the project without needing prior expertise, and a code base that was designed to be easy to understand. In addition, the popularity of the tutorial (over 30k views on YouTube at the time of writing) meant that many people heard about this project and were interested in participating. In addition, the GitHub-based infrastructure allowed for asynchronous work and a website that was automatically updated each time anyone made a change to their code or to the text of the paper.

By providing models which used spiking neurons to transform sensory inputs into behavioural outputs, participants were free to explore in virtually any direction they wished, much like an open-world or sandbox video game. Indeed over the course of the project we explored the full sensory-motor transformation from manipulating the nature of the input signals to perturbing unit activity and assessing network behaviour. Consequently, our code forms an excellent basis for teaching, as concepts from across neuroscience can be introduced and then implemented in class. For example, one could introduce how optogenetics can be used to assess the relationship between neural activity and behaviour, and then students can implement and explore this themselves *in silico*. Or similarly, an introduction to different neuron models can be followed by an exercise in which students must code and study how each alters network behaviour. In the longer-term, extending our code and written material to a full introduction to neuroscience course remains an exciting future direction.

Beyond providing teaching and hands-on research experience, the project also offered many opportunities for participants to improve their "soft" scientific skills. For early career researchers (undergraduate and master's students) these included learning how to work with Git, collaborate with researchers from diverse countries and career stages, and contribute to a scientific publication. For later career researchers (PhD, Postdoc) the project provided many supervision and leadership opportunities. For example, during online workshops, later career participants were encouraged to lead small groups focussed on tackling specific questions.  

## What went wrong
While our sandbox design offered several advantages (discussed above), the open nature of the process did present two challenges. Our first challenge was standardising work across participants; for example, ensuring that everyone used the same code and hyperparameters. Along these lines, future projects would benefit from having participants dedicated to maintaining the code base and standardising participants work.

Our second challenge, was the project's exploratory nature. While this appealed to many participants, the lack of a clear goal or end-point may have been off-putting to others. For future efforts, one alternative would be to define clear goals a priori, however if handled carelessly, this runs the risk of reducing to a to-do list passed from more senior to more junior researchers. A more appealing alternative could be to structure the project in clearly defined phases. For example, early months reviewing literature could be followed by a period of proposals and question refinement, before a final stretch of research. Or alternatively, to begin by collecting project proposals and allowing participants to vote on a project to pursue. For example, this could be done by having each participant check a box for each project they would choose to work on if it were selected, and then selecting the project with the most checks (thereby maximising the expected number of participants). Potentially, more than one project could be launched simultaneously if this approach became very popular.

A third challenge was around assigning credit towards the end of the project. We had initially - and perhaps somewhat idealistically - stated that anyone who contributed to the project, either by writing code or participating in one of the workshops, would be included on the author list. To the extent that it was possible, we have followed this, although we were simply unable to contact several of the participants who could not therefore be included in the author list. It also caused some discussion that some participants who had only made a very minimal contribution were given equal credit as authors. We addressed this issue with a contributions table, and an author order that was ultimately agreed on unanimously (but which could easily have caused issues). We experimented with using the number or size of GitHub commits to order authors, but this was found to be clearly inconsistent with time spent on the project, and so was abandoned. In future iterations, these issues should be determined collaboratively at the start of the project, and made explicit so that participants can decide at the start if they would like to join or not.

Ultimately, while the project explored many interesting directions which could form the basis for future work, we did not reach a point where we could draw strong scientifically useful conclusions in the field of sound localization. Based on our experience, we think this is probably because we pitched the project too free-form, and it would have benefited from a more coordinated approach. The question is, how to do this without compromising the ideal of a bottom-up project of equal participants? Extending the voting idea above, one approach would be to make the proposer of the project that was democratically selected into the project coordinator, with an additional role of making sure that results are comparable and generally keeping the project on the right track. This role is similar to a traditional supervisor, but a supervisor that was voted for by the participants, rather than one who hires people to work on their project.

## Conclusions

We did not make any major scientific breakthroughs in this project due to our decision to take a very free-form approach. However, we did show that it is feasible to coordinate a large number of participants distributed around the world to work together on a mutual scientific research project on an equal basis. This project explored several exciting potential research directions that would be worth exploring in more detail. Indeed, several participants have been motivated to start or to continue working on spiking neural networks and sound localization, and a number of individual follow-up research projects are planned based on this project. Participants agreed that it was a valuable experience, and the organisers feel that it was sufficiently successful that they plan a follow-up project along the lines outlined above.