### Contralateral glycinergic inhibition as key factor in creating ITD sensitivity

### Intro
For the vast majority of animals, sound localization is realized through two classes of hidden acoustic cues: binaural cues and spectral cues. In humans, binaural cues alone are sufficient to discriminate azimuth angle between 0-180 degrees, whereas psychoacoustic evidence has showed how spectral cues have a role in the solution of front-back ambiguities and in angle recognition along the vertical plane (i.e. elevation angles).
Focusing on binaural cues, the two main signals exploited by different animals in creating an acoustic spatiality are interaural time and level differences (ITDs and ILDs). Their role and their dominance over each other depend mainly on animal head size and hearing range in terms of frequencies. 
It is clear at first glance how ITDs assume significant values for species with large head sizes while being much smaller, and so much harder to neuronally encode, for smaller animals. ILDs on the other hand occur when the wavelength of the sound stimulus is shorter than the size of the animal's head, which then generates a significant attenuation at the contralateral ear. For this reason, ILDs significance with respect to ITDs is greater in smaller animals with a middle ear specialised for the transmission of high frequencies. 
These data soon led to the conclusion that in humans, whose audible range is centred on lower frequencies than in other mammals, the ITD was the main binaural cue in discriminating different azimuth angles. For this reason, the most important model that attempts to explain human sound localization, namely the Jeffress Model, only takes ITDs into account and proposes a theoretical circuit consisting of axonal delay lines at the level of the brainstem that can create this type of sensitivity. For many years, Jeffress's remained the most accepted proposal given the discovery of axonal lines potentially similar to those theorised by Jeffress in the Nucleo Laminaris (NL) of different bird species. 
However, over the years the presence of similar delay lines in the mammalian nucleus called the medial superior olive (MSO), within the superior olivary complex and analogous to the avian NL, has never been demonstrated. Furthermore, some studies have highlighted other critical issues in the Jeffress model, such as the fact that the response peaks in the values of ITD functions were outside the physiological range in many of the mammalian species analysed and that the values of these peaks did not vary according to the different head size as might be expected. 
In the pivotal study of our work, Groethe et al. support the thesis that the neuronal structures of sound localization depend on the evolutionary history of the specific species in question. The original binaural cue used by the ancestor of that species at the time of inner ear development is, according to this thesis, a key factor in determining the neural strategy currently applied in coding the binaural cues. For this reason, humans and all other large mammals may have very different structures than birds for encoding ITDs, because whereas the latter derive from large archosaurs with low-frequency hearing, in which ITD was already the main binaural cue, the former derive from early mammals, which had smaller dimensions and ILDs as a central cue in shaping acoustic spatiality.
Thus, the strategy we tried to validate in our computational model stands as an alternative to the Jeffress model with regard to the analysis of ITDs. It is more grounded in the neural circuits actually observed in the mammalian brainstem and has glycinergic inhibition from the contralateral ear as its main actor, in a manner similar to the creation of ILD sensitivity in the lateral superior olive (LSO).

### Methods
### Results
