## Infrastructure
### GitHub
Like many open-source efforts, our public GitHub repository (https://github.com/comob-project/snn-sound-localization) was the heart of our project. This provided us with three main benefits. First, it made joining the project as simple as cloning and committing to the repository. Second, it allowed us to collaborate asynchronously. I.e., we could easily complete work in our own time, and then share it with the group. Third, it allowed us to track contributions to the project. Measured in this way, x individuals contributed to the project. However, interpreting this number is challenging, as these contributions vary significantly in size, and participants who worked in pairs or small groups, often contributed under a single username. For those interested in pursuing a similar project our repository template, which we structured as follows, is available here: link.  
* A *research* folder held Jupyter Notebooks and markdown files which participants added to and edited.    
* A *web* folder contained code which built our repository into a website, and finally
* a *paper* folder held the markdown files which we compiled into this paper.

### Workflow
Our project grew out of a tutorial at the Cosyne conference (2022) for which we provided video lectures and code online (ref). Participants joining the project were encouraged to review this material, and then to work through an introductory Jupyter Notebook containing Python code, figures and markdown text, which taught them how to train a spiking neural network to perform a sound localisation task. Participants were then directed to our website where we maintained a list of open scientific and technical questions for inspiration. For example, how does the use of different neuron models impact network performance and can we learn input delays with gradient descent? Then, with a proposed or novel question in hand, participants were free to approach their work as they wished. In practice, much like a "typical" research project, most work was conducted individually, shared at monthly online meetings and then iteratively improved upon. For example, several early career researchers tackled questions full-time as their dissertation or thesis work and benefited from external input at monthly workshops. In the following two sections we discuss what worked well with our workflow, and how future efforts could be improved.   

## A neuroscientific sandbox
By providing models which used spiking neurons to transform sensory inputs into behavioural outputs, participants were free to explore in virtually any direction they wished, much like an open-world or sandbox video game. Indeed over the course of the project we explored the full sensory-motor transformation from manipulating the nature of the input signals to perturbing unit activity and assessing network behaviour. Consequently, our code forms an excellent basis for teaching, as concepts from across neuroscience can be introduced and then implemented in class. For example, one could introduce how optogenetics can be used to assess the relationship between neural activity and behaviour, and then students can implement and explore this themselves *in silico*. Or similarly, an introduction to different neuron models can be followed by an exercise in which students must code and study how each alters network behaviour. In the longer-term, extending our code and written material to a full introduction to neuroscience course remains an exciting future direction.

Beyond providing teaching and hands-on research experience, the project also offered many opportunities for participants to improve their "soft" scientific skills. For early career researchers (undergraduate and master's students) these included learning how to work with Git, collaborate with researchers from diverse countries and career stages, and contribute to a scientific publication. For later career researchers (PhD, Postdoc) the project provided many supervision and leadership opportunities. For example, during online workshops, later career participants were encouraged to lead small groups focussed on tackling specific questions.  

## Directing play in the sandbox
While our sandbox design offered several advantages (discussed above), it's open nature did present two challenges. Our first challenge was standardising work across participants; for example, ensuring that everyone used the same code and hyperparameters. Along these lines, future projects would benefit from having participants dedicated to maintaining the code base and standardising participants work. Our second challenge, was the projects exploratory nature. While this appealed to many participants, the lack of a clear goal or end-point may have been off-putting to others. For future efforts, one alternative would be to define clear goals a priori, however in a worst case this could simply reduce to a to-do list passed from more senior to more junior researchers. A more appealing alternative would be to structure the project in clearly defined phases. For example, early months reviewing literature, could be followed by a period of proposals and question refinement, before a final stretch of research. Or alternatively, to begin by collecting project proposals and allowing participants to vote on a project to pursue.     
