Studies of biologically plausible computation in ANNs have typically focused on network-level constraints, such as feedback connectivity and learning rules (Lee et al., 2015; Lillicrap et al., 2016; Nøkland, 2016; Bengio et al., 2016). However, recent research points towards the critical importance of finer-grained biological properties, such as membrane time constants and cell morphologies (e.g., Perez-Nieves et al., 2021). Here, inspired by foundational work on synaptic integration in single neurons, we investigate the contributions of dendritic filtering to temporal processing in a spiking neural network (SNN) model.

In the brain, synaptic currents flow through a neuron's dendrites before reaching the soma, fundamentally shaping the postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) that drive action potential output. Dendritic properties such as diameter, length, branching patterns and ion channel distributions lead to diverse filtering effects. Moreover, input location in the dendritic tree influences the degree of attenuation and delay of PSPs -- distal inputs lead to smaller and broader voltage waveforms at the soma than proximal inputs. Dendritic filtering thus endows single biological neurons with processing capabilities far beyond those of the simplified `point neurons' that dominate in network models. A wealth of experimental and theoretical research indeed supports the importance of dendrites for neural computation (London \& Hausser, 2005; Bicknell \& Hausser; OTHER REFS), including in auditory coincidence detection for sound localisation in mammals and birds (Agmon-Snir et al., 1998).

The SNN model in our study is trained to detect and exploit small phase differences between two concurrently received signals, representing sound waves arriving at different ears. While the computation can be performed if the network is seeded with random axonal delays, we hypothesized that this requirement can be discarded in the presence of dendritic filtering. Because synaptic input at different locations on a dendritic tree produces different PSP waveforms, randomly located synapses could serve to seed the network with a broad range of signal delays. Further, inspired by the `Filter-and-Fire' neuron model of Beniaguev et al. (2022), assuming multiple synaptic connections between pairs of neurons (as in the brain), we test whether such synaptic signal delays can also be effectively tuned simply by adjusting synaptic weights.
