(inhib-model)=
## Contralateral glycinergic inhibition as a key factor in creating ITD sensitivity

```{list-table}
* - Section authors
  - Francesco De Santis, Alberto Antonietti
* - Notebooks
  - [](../research/new_inh_model.ipynb)
```

### Highlights
Here we use a more biologically inspired model to overcome some limitations that have been highlighted in the classic Jeffress model, whose existence, in mammals, is still debated. In fact, axonal delay lines have not been found in the mammalian MSO. We focused then our attention on the inhibitory inputs to the MSO, which were found both anatomically (there are inhibitory ipsilateral and contralateral pathways) and computationally (in our model) to have a central role for coding ITDs. Experiments with inhibition blocked (by a glycine antagonist: strychnine) shown indeed a loss of ITD-coding in the MSO.

(inhib-intro)=
### Introduction 

Once immersed in the neuroanatomy literature devoted to human sound localization circuits, we realized how to fully grasp the development of ITD sensitivity in the MSO it was necessary to parallel outline the strategy by which ILDs are represented in the LSO (Lateral Superior Olive). From an evolutionary point of view, specific to the mammalian phylogenetic tree, the MSO can in fact be considered a refined version of the older LSO [@Grothe2014].

LSO principal cells have a bipolar dendritic tree that receives excitatory input from the ipsilateral ear and inhibitory input from the contralateral one. All mammals appear to apply one common neural strategy for processing ILDs, which consists of subtraction between these two inputs.  For instance, neurons in the right LSO will be more excited when sound arrives from the right and more inhibited when sound arrives from the left. The function that describes LSO neurons’ firing rate according to different azimuth angles is usually a sigmoid, presenting the highest values for sound coming from the hemispace ipsilateral to the nucleus, with a steep slope centered on frontal angles (i.e., close to 0°), suggesting a rate-coding strategy for identifying different ILD values with high sensitivity for frontal angles, as suggested by psychoacoustic evidence.

Although the on-off nature of this subtraction strategy, for which exquisite timing of inhibitory influences appears not to be a key prerequisite, the two major inputs to the LSO are specialized for high-fidelity temporal transmission. An explanation is found in the fact that the subtraction process happening in LSO principal cells is realized in a phase-locked way with respect to the stimulus. This implies a purely suppressive coincidence mechanism happening at each period of the phase-locked inputs to the LSO (spiking occurs unless binaural coincidence is happening).

The MSO, on the other hand, receives two additional inputs compared to the LSO: a contralateral excitation and an ipsilateral inhibition. As a result of experimental observations, the main hypothesis is that the combination of these four inputs has converted the suppressive coincidence mechanism present in the LSO into an excitatory coincidence one for the detection of ITDs in the MSO (spiking occurs only if binaural coincidence is happening) [@Grothe2014].

Through the model described in this appendix, we therefore maintained the idea that coincidence mechanisms are present in mammalian MSO neurons, as described in the Jeffress Model, already amply depicted in the main text. Nevertheless, we also pointed out how the neuro-anatomical strategies adopted to implement this coincidence are different from those assumed by this gold standard model, since the presence of axonal delay lines in the mammalian MSO has never been experimentally demonstrated. 

We evaluated the activity of these four nuclei (left and right LSO and MSO), using the firing rates of our artificial LSOs as a validation platform for our network, while exploring the impact of certain parameters in the processing of ITDs in the in silico MSO.
In order to define a firing rate activity target during this second phase of the work, we relied on the results obtained in these two past experimental studies:

- in {cite:t}`Brand2002`, the analysis of _in vivo_ recordings from the MSO of the _Mongolian gerbil_ showed how all the 20 neurons tested responded maximally to sounds leading in time at the contralateral ear. Peaks in the firing rate of these neurons were also found for (artificial) ITD values higher than the highest possible ones generated by the gerbil head, which correspond to almost 120 $\mu s$ for a sound coming at 90° from the contralateral hemispace. 

- in {cite:t}`Pecka2008`, the physical mechanisms underlying the shift in peaks' activity towards contralateral ITD values was explored. The results showed how the two inhibitory inputs to the MSO, which are not considered in the Jeffres model, have instead a central role in this process. By blocking the glycinergic inhibition to the MSO neurons by means of the application of its antagonist, strychnine, the authors observed the loss of the peak shift in all their response activity. Having now a symmetry in all the neuron responses, with a peak in the activity corresponding to null ITD values (i.e., 0° azimuth angle), all the information present in the MSO responses had been lost. Inhibition was thus shown to have a central role in identifying the ITD values in the MSO. Consequently, in our model we tried to block these inhibitory inputs to explore the effect that they have on the MSO activity

Finally, we wanted to understand how the firing rate activity of different neurons in the MSO could be differentiated (i.e. different peak positions in the contralateral space) in order to code for different ITD values and consequently different sound source azimuth angles.

Some additional experimental studies reported how inhibitory inputs, especially the contralateral one, can arrive slightly in advance of the excitatory inputs from the corresponding sides, thus influencing the way ipsilateral and contralateral inputs add up in the MSO neurons and thereby generating a range of maximum responses for contralateral ITD values [@Myoga2014;@Roberts2013]. Nevertheless, other work has characterized the hypothesis of anticipation of inhibitory inputs as implausible [@vanderHeijden2013]. 

Since the absence of a clear and shared hypothesis in the literature, we decided to test our own: neurons in the MSO could present different activity given to the different shape of post-synaptic potentials (PSPs), both excitatory (EPSPs) and inhibitory (IPSPs). 

### Methods
Inspired by the neurophysiological data, we implemented a complex spiking neural network in Python using the NEST Simulator framework [@spreizer_2022_6368024]. The different neuronal populations composing the brainstem circuit and their interconnections are depicted in {ref}`network_diagram`.


```{figure} sections/new_inh_model/network_diagram.tiff
:label: network_diagram
:width: 100%

The end-to-end brainstem model with the network diagram. The number of neurons for each population is written in the respective block
```

The principal inputs to the network are the spectrogram of a sound stimulus arriving at both ears and the azimuth angle from which univocal values of ITD and ILD are computed. 

While the ITD value is obtained realistically considering the interaural path difference, which is the difference between the paths traveled by the sound starting from the source and arriving at the two ears and dividing it by the speed of sound in air (i.e., 330 m/s), the ILD value is more artificial, since it is computed as a difference in the number of spikes between left and right auditory nerve fibers (ANFs). This strategy, although very efficient in modeling the effect of ILD on various neural populations, does not take into account the natural variability of the ILD value in relation to the frequency of the input sound and its distance from the subject. Nevertheless, these aspects were not a problem with regard to the results presented in this appendix, as only one frequency of input sound was used and a fixed source distance was kept.

With regards to the spectrogram, we covered the whole human audible range of sound between a minimum frequency of 20 Hz and a maximum of 20 kHz. We subdivided it into 3500 channels since this value is the most likely estimate of the number of inner hair cells (IHCs) present in the human cochlea. With the intent to mimic the physiological distribution of IHCs along the basilar membrane, the width of each frequency channel was not constant throughout the range but grew exponentially [@Fettiplace2023].

For modeling of ANFs, we used the `pulse_packet_generator`, a built-in NEST device that produces a spike train containing Gaussian spike clusters centered around given times. 
These devices mimic the actual behaviour of ANFs subjected to a pure tonal stimulus, which, like all other neuronal populations involved in sound processing, manifest a phase-locked response. The firing of these neurons tends to occur only at a certain restricted phase of the incoming sine wave of sound, due to the working principle of the inner hair cells placed in the cochlea [@Yin2019]. `pulse_packet_generator` allowed us to define the number of spikes in each packet (varying accordingly to the ILD), with spike times that are normally distributed with respect to the central time of the pulse. A source of noise was introduced by setting the standard deviation of the random displacement from the center of the pulse equal to 0.1 ms.

All other cell populations were implemented through `iaf_cond_alpha models` (a simple implementation of a spiking neuron in NEST using integrate-and-fire dynamics with conductance-based synapses and a postsynaptic change of conductance modeled by an alpha function). With this model we implemented in a manner faithful to their biological counterparts the bushy cells (spherical and globular, SBCs and GBCs) located in the anteroventral part of the cochlear nuclei, the glycinergic neurons located in the medial and lateral trapezoidal body (MNTB and LNTB), and finally the main cells of the lateral superior olives (LSOs). All the default parameters of this NEST model were kept unchanged (see [](#table1)) apart from the membrane capacitance ‘C_m’, which was lowered to 1 pF to ensure sufficiently quick membrane time constants as seen experimentally in these neurons {cite:t}`Cao2007`. 

![iaf_cond_alpha parameters]
(table1)=
| **Parameter**          | **Value**        | **Description**                                   |
|-------------------------|------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| C_m (pF)           | 250 pF           | Membrane capacitance                              |
| g_L (nS)           | 16.6667 nS       | Leak conductance                                  |
| E_L (mV)           | -70 mV           | Leak reversal potential (resting potential)       |
| refr_T (ms)        | 2 ms             | Duration of refractory period                     |
| V_th (mV)        | -55 mV           | Spike threshold potential                         |
| V_reset (mV)     | -60 mV           | Reset potential                                   |
| E_exc (mV)       | 0 mV             | Excitatory reversal potential                     |
| E_inh (mV)       | -85 mV           | Inhibitory reversal potential                     |
| tau_syn,exc (ms)| 0.2 ms           | Synaptic time constant of excitatory synapse      |
| tau_syn,inh (ms)| 2 ms             | Synaptic time constant of inhibitory synapse      |

**Table 1:** Key parameters for the *iaf_cond_alpha* neural model, including membrane properties, spike-related parameters, and synaptic properties.

The MSO principal cells were instead implemented through the `iaf_cond_beta model`. The use of a beta function to replicate the postsynaptic change of conductance allowed us to change independently the time constants of rise and fall of the conductance change and thus modify both the excitatory and inhibitory post-synaptic potential shapes in the MSO. In this way, we could explore different sets of values and attempt to validate our hypothesis about how inhibitory inputs can code for different ITD values in MSO cells, see [](#inhib-intro).

![Brainstem network data]

| **Cell Type** | **Model**                     | **Convergence**                    | **Numerosity** | **Number - Frequency Channels ratio** |
|---------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------------|----------------|----------------------------------------|
| ANFs          | *poisson generator* (devices) | 4 : 1 to SBCs<br>20 : 1 to GBCs    | 35000          | 10                                     |
| SBCs          | *iaf_cond_alpha*             | 5 : 1 to LSO PCs,<br>5 : 1 to MSO PCs | 8750           | 2.5                                    |
| GBCs          | *iaf_cond_alpha*             | 1 : 1 to MNTB PCs                  | 1750           | 0.5                                    |
| MNTB PCs      | *iaf_cond_alpha*             | 1 : 1 to LSO PCs,<br>1 : 1 to MSO PCs | 1750           | 0.5                                    |
| LSO PCs       | *iaf_cond_alpha*             | -                                   | 1750           | 0.5                                    |
| MSO PCs       | *iaf_cond_beta*             | -                                   | 7000          | 3.5                                    |

**Table 2:** Brainstem network data about different populations cell types, NEST models used, convergence, numerosity, and mean number of cells within a single frequency channel.


For the validation of the complete brainstem network, including both LSO and MSO of both sides, sound stimuli with frequencies of 100 Hz and 1 s duration from different spatial positions were tested. Specifically, we gave the model azimuth angles ranging from -90° to +90° with an interval of 15°. 
The MSO response was tested both in physiological conditions and with blocked inhibitory inputs, as in the experiments of Brand et al. and Pecka et al.

### Results 
As for the LSO response in {ref}`lso_mso`, in our results we obtained the desired subtraction process described in [](#inhib-intro): considering for the sake of simplicity the left LSO, when the sound arrives from a source placed at 90° (i.e., right), the right ear receives sounds earlier and more intensely than the left. As the azimuth angle proceeds toward 0° (frontal position), the firing rate of the left LSO increases while maintaining a constant slope. This steep segment is the most informative part of the left LSO response curve, as a high sensitivity to changing input azimuth angles is guaranteed. Once past 0°, the firing rate ceases to increase steadily, and the response flattens out to high-rate values. Here, the ipsilateral (left) excitation dominates due to louder sounds.


```{figure} sections/new_inh_model/lso_mso.tiff
:label: lso_mso
:width: 100%

Mean firing-rate responses of the left LSO (on the left) and the left MSO (on the right) after stimulation with a 100 Hz pure tone sound for 1 second at different azimuth angles. For the MSO, four neurons with different time constants are shown. Neuron 1 responds maximally for input at +15°, Neuron 2 at +30°, Neuron 3 at +45°, and Neuron 4 at +90°.
```

Regarding the MSO instead ({ref}`lso_mso`), the different curves represent the activity of four neurons in the left MSO for which we varied only the value of the time constants of the decay in conductance generated by input spikes for both excitatory (`tau_decay_exc`) and inhibitory (`tau_decay_inh`) inputs. We observed that different combinations of these two values provided coding for a specific angle achieved by a peak at different angles (and thus different ITD values) in that cell's activity. As observed experimentally, all peaks were present in the contralateral sound space, thus confirming the hypothesis that, in contrast to the coding strategy applied in the LSO, higher activity is present in the MSO for sounds from the contralateral space.

Regarding simulations in which the MSO receives only excitatory inputs ({ref}`blocked_inh`), a loss in the coding of different contralateral angles is evidenced by a symmetric firing rate curve, with all the peak values being higher and shifted towards 0° angles with respect to the physiological activity, as measured experimentally in {cite:t}`Pecka2008`.


```{figure} sections/new_inh_model/blocked_inh.tiff
:label: blocked_inh
:width: 100%

Figure 3: Loss of contralateral ITD peak-coding for the four different neurons in the left MSO: the control condition (with physiological inhibitory inputs) is shown in blue, whereas the curves in red depict the condition with blocked inhibition to the MSO; in the latter scenario, firing-rate values are higher with respect to the former and peaks are shifted to null ITD values, so that the coding of each neuron for a specific azimuth angle is now lost.
```

The achievements of this work are to be considered significant in the investigation of the mechanisms used by the mammalian brainstem to perform sound localization. The computational model developed is a good validation platform for the most recent theories concerning the processing of the ITDs in the MSO. This model has shown, for pure tones of 100 Hz frequency, the physiological functioning of LSO and MSO. The peak-coding strategy applied for the identification of contralateral angles in each MSO can be considered a refinement of the rate-based localization of sounds happening in the LSO. As described in the [](#inhib-intro), this type of redundancy is also justified by the evolutionary history of spatial hearing mechanisms in mammals.
The differentiation in the activity of MSO neurons due to the different time constants of the decay in conductance generated by input spikes was found to be a valid hypothesis for implementing the coding of ITDs. In the end, this work leads to the possible conclusion that strategies similar to those used for the processing of ILDs have also been readapted for the processing of ITDs and that in the brainstem of modern mammals, these two processes occur in parallel, merging at a higher level, and thus providing a more refined and complete spatial map.
